.\" bitbit, a bitboard based chess engine written in c.
.\" Copyright (C) 2022-2024 Isak Ellmer
.\"
.\" This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License, version 2 as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

.Dd 2024\-04\-04
.Dt BITBIT 6
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm bitbit
.Nd a bitboard based chess engine written in c
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl v
.Op Ar command ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a bitboard based chess engine written in c. It implements the uci protocol.
.Pp
If a
.Ar command
is specified,
.Nm
parses and executes the command and then exits.
.Nm
parses commands separated by commas as commands to be executed after one another.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl v , \-version
Display the version and exit.
.El
.Sh COMMANDS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ic version
Display the version.
.It Ic help
Display a general help page.
.It Ic quit
Exit
.Nm .
.It Ic clear
Clear the screen.
.It Ic move Ar move
Make the move
.Ar move
on the board.
.Ar move
can be either in standard notation or long algebraic notation e.g. Nf3 or g1f3.
.It Ic undo
Undo the last made move on the board.
.It Ic flip
Flips the side to move.
.It Ic mirror
Mirrors the board by color.
.It Ic perft Ar depth
Executes a performance tests of depth
.Ar depth
on the current board.
.It Ic position Oo Cm startpos | fen Ar fen Oc Op Cm moves Ar moves
Display the board. If
.Cm startpos
or
.Cm fen 
is specified it sets the board accordingly. It then makes the moves in the space
separated list of moves
.Ar moves
on the board.
.It Ic stop
Stop the currently executing command.
.It Ic eval
Display evaluation information about the board.
.It Ic go Oo Cm depth Ar depth Oc Oo Cm wtime Ar wtime Oc Oo Cm btime Ar btime \
Oc Oo Cm winc Ar winc Oc Oo Cm binc Ar binc Oc Oo Cm movetime Ar movetime Oc
Search the board recursively to depth
.Ar depth
or until
.Ar movetime
milliseconds runs out. If any of the options
.Ar wtime , btime , winc
or
.Ar binc
are supplied,
.Nm
calculates the optimal search time in milliseconds.
.It Ic tt
Display transposition table information.
.It Ic isready
Print
.Dq readyok .
.It Ic uci
Display uci related information.
.It Ic ucinewgame
Setup
.Nm
for a new game.
.It Ic setoption Cm name Ar name Cm value Ar value
Set uci option
.Ar name
to
.Ar value .
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Nm
exists 0 on success. If
.Nm
fails to allocate the transposition table it exists 1.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Search the starting position to depth 4 and then exit.
.Pp
.D1 $ Ic bitbit go depth 4 \&, quit
.D1 bitbit Copyright (C) 2022-2024 Isak Ellmer
.D1 info depth 1 seldepth 2 score cp 23 nodes 20 time 0 nps 270270 pv d2d4
.D1 info depth 2 seldepth 3 score cp 45 nodes 65 time 0 nps 303738 pv d2d4 e7e6
.D1 info depth 3 seldepth 8 score cp 27 nodes 502 time 0 nps 713068 pv g1f3 d7d5 \
d2d4
.D1 info depth 4 seldepth 8 score cp 27 nodes 972 time 1 nps 617927 pv d2d4 g8f6 \
g1f3 d7d5
.D1 bestmove d2d4
.Pp
Set a position, do a performance test to depth 6 and then exit.
.Pp
.D1 $ Ic bitbit
.D1 bitbit Copyright (C) 2022\-2024 Isak Ellmer
.D1 Ic position fen r3k2r/Pppp1ppp/1b3nbN/nP6/BBP1P3/q4N2/Pp1P2PP/R2Q1RK1 w kq \
\- 0 1
.D1 Ic perft 6
.D1 c4c5: 92063670
.D1 d2d4: 124002076
.D1 f3d4: 129579089
.D1 b4c5: 87986826
.D1 f1f2: 123078367
.D1 g1h1: 149335005
.D1 nodes: 706045033
.D1 time: 2.26
.D1 mnps: 312
.D1 Ic quit
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr epdbit 6 ,
.Xr pgnbit 6
.Sh AUTHORS
.Nm
is written by Isak Ellmer.
