.\" bitbit, a bitboard based chess engine written in c.
.\" Copyright (C) 2022-2025 Isak Ellmer
.\"
.\" This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License, version 2 as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

.Dd 2024\-04\-04
.Dt EPDBIT 6
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm epdbit
.Nd create epd openings books
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl vmu
.Op Fl c | Fl e Ar endgame
.Op Fl p Ar centipawns Fl d Ar filter-depth
.Op Fl n Ar moves-min
.Op Fl N Ar moves-max
.Ar fens
.Ar file
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
creates an epd opening book containing
.Ar fens
fens. The opening book is saved to
.Ar file .
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl v , \-verbose
Verbose mode.
.Nm
prints the generated fens to stdout.
.It Fl m , \-minor-pieces
Only move the minor pieces and pawns.
.It Fl u , \-unique
Don't generate duplicate openings.
.It Fl c , \-chess960
Generate a chess960 opening book.
.It Fl e , \-endgame Ar endgame
Generate endgames.
.Ar endgame
is of the form KXKX, i.e. KQKRP.
.It Fl p , \-centipawns Ar centipawns
Only generate openings where the evaluation difference is below or equal to
.Ar centipawns .
.It Fl d , \-filter\-depth Ar filter\-depth
Search the positions to depth
.Ar depth
when filtering positions by evaluation difference.
.It Fl n , \-moves\-min Ar moves\-min
Make a minimum of
.Ar moves\-min
moves when generating a position.
.It Fl N , \-moves\-max Ar moves\-max
Make a maximum of
.Ar moves\-max
moves when generating a position.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr bitbit 6 ,
.Xr pgnbit 6
.Sh AUTHORS
.Nm
is written by Isak Ellmer.
