.\" bitbit, a bitboard based chess engine written in c.
.\" Copyright (C) 2022-2024 Isak Ellmer
.\"
.\" This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License, version 2 as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

.Dd 2024\-04\-04
.Dt PGNBIT 6
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm pgnbit
.Nd pgn file parser
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl vmsqceh
.Op Fl f Ar skip-first
.Ar infile
.Ar outfile
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
creates an epd opening book containing
.Ar fens
fens. The opening book is saved to
.Ar file .
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl v , \-verbose
Verbose mode.
.It Fl m , \-skip\-mates
Skip any moves where a mate has been found.
.It Fl s , \-shuffle
Shuffle the games.
.It Fl q , \-quiet
Skip any position which are not quiet.
.It Fl c , \-skip\-checks
Skip any move that gives check.
.It Fl e , \-skip\-endgames
Skip endgames.
.It Fl h , \-skip\-halfmove
Skip based on halfmove. The probability of keeping a move is exp(-halfmove).
The higher the halfmove is, the higher the probability of skipping.
.It Fl f , \-skip\-first Ar skip\-first
Skip first
.Ar skip\-first
moves of every game.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr bitbit 6 ,
.Xr epdbit 6
.Sh AUTHORS
.Nm
is written by Isak Ellmer.
