.\" bitbit, a bitboard based chess engine written in c.
.\" Copyright (C) 2022-2024 Isak Ellmer
.\"
.\" This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License, version 2 as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

.Dd 2024\-04\-18
.Dt TEXELBIT 6
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm texelbit
.Nd tune chess evaluation parameters
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl K Ar K
.Op Fl 1 Ar beta1
.Op Fl 2 Ar beta2
.Op Fl e Ar epsilon
.Op Fl a Ar alpha
.Op Fl d Ar decay
.Ar file
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
tunes the evaluation parameters of bitbit according to the binary file
.Ar file.
.Nm
implements the Adam optimizer.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl K , \-K Ar K
Sets the hyperparameter K to
.Ar K.
.It Fl 1 , \-beta1 Ar beta1
Sets the hyperparameter beta1 to
.Ar beta1.
.It Fl 2 , \-beta2 Ar beta2
Sets the hyperparameter beta2 to
.Ar beta2.
.It Fl e , \-epsilon Ar epsilon
Sets the hyperparameter epsilon to
.Ar epsilon.
.It Fl a , \-alpha Ar alpha
Sets the hyperparameter alpha to
.Ar alpha.
.It Fl d , \-decay Ar decay
Sets the hyperparameter decay to
.Ar decay.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr bitbit 6 ,
.Xr pgnbit 6 ,
.Xr epdbit 6
.Sh AUTHORS
.Nm
is written by Isak Ellmer.
